Expanded Merkle DAG Tutorial (#582)
ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io: src/tutorials/0008-merkle-dags/05.md

free up some space on your hard drive!

## Any Node Can Be a Root Node

DAGs can be seen as recursive data structures, each DAG
consisting of *smaller* DAGs. In our example, the CID “baf...8”
identifies a DAG, but so does the CID “baf...6”- it just
identifies a smaller DAG, a subgraph of the one identified by
“baf...8”. The corresponding nodes are *both* root nodes, given
the right context.

This is an extremely powerful and useful property. If we’re
retrieving content that’s structured as a DAG, we don’t have to
retrieve the entire DAG: we have the option of retrieving a
subgraph instead, identified by its own top node’s CID (the top
node of this subgraph would become its root node). If we want to
share that subgraph with somebody else, we don’t have to include
the context of the larger graph we originally retrieved the data
from- we just have to send the CID of the subgraph. And, if we
want to embed that subgraph as a part of a larger DAG that’s
different from the one we originally found it in, we’re free to,
because the DAG’s CID, which is the CID of its root node, depends
the root node’s descendents and not its ancestors.

> That last point deserves greater emphasis: with Merkle DAGs, we

Author: Given that "forest" is usually thought of as consisting of discrete trees, and that we've avoided saying "tree" at all in this tutorial, so the metaphor/pun is a bit lost, we might reword the last sentence here.

Author: Elected for deletion.

---
    title: "Merkle DAGs: Verifiability"
    type: "multiple-choice"
---

Because we use cryptographic-strength hash algorithms to create
CIDs, they offer a high degree of *verifiability*: an individual
who retrieves data using a content address can always compute the
CID for themselves to ensure that they got what they were after.
This offers both permanence (the data behind a content address
will never change) and protection against malicious manipulation
(bad actors can’t trick you into downloading the wrong file
without you recognizing that it’s not the file you requested).

In a Merkle DAG, the CID of each node depends, in turn, on the
CIDs of each of its children. As such, the CID of a root node
uniquely identifies not just that node, but the *entire* DAG of

> which it’s the root! As a result, we can extend all of the

Reviewer: perhaps...?
```suggestion
which it is a root node! As a result, we can extend all of the
```

Reviewer 2: I actually prefer this one as is  - contractions are less formal and we've already use node previously in the sentence so doesn't feel necessary to me.

Reviewer: no objections!
